If you ever question how much AWS is invested in serverless architecture,
look no further than the Serverless Application Model,
also called SAM.
This open‑source software provides many of the pieces you need to
create a full serverless application in AWS.
Using a configuration tool and a command line application,
you can define all the pieces of your serverless application,
such as functions, event sources, and more,
and then deploy them up to AWS.
Before I go into detail about SAM,
let's discuss the differences between it and the Serverless
Framework we're using for the demo application.
While the SAM CLI tool was in a rough place a year or 2 ago,
SAM development has finally reached a mature and stable point.
The team has built many features into the SAM CLI tool
that makes deployment a smooth process.
Since SAM is mostly just a wrapper around CloudFormation however,
there are still many things that the Serverless
Framework lets you do that SAM cannot.
And really,
that's why I chose the Serverless Framework for the
demo application with this course.
SAM is still very important,
and since it appears on the AWS Developer Associate Certification exam,
I wanted to talk through how it works.
The core of SAM is a configuration template,
quite similar to a CloudFormation template,
that defines your serverless application.
The template will actually be deployed by CloudFormation.
So a key property of this template is the transform property.
This tells CloudFormation that the template is written in the SAM
syntax and instructs it to transform certain resources.
The additional resource types available to declare in a SAM
template as of this video are Serverless Function,
Serverless API, and Serverless SimpleTable.
Let's take a look at each one of these.
A serverless function is exactly what you would think, a lambda function.
What SAM does beyond creating a normal lambda function is to also
create an IAM execution role and create and configure any event
source mappings for the function.
Here's an example SAM function resource declaration that creates a
lambda and connects it to an API Gateway event source.
You will need to create the event source separately from this
declaration since this only creates the mapping.
The only exception is in the case of an API resource.
If there is no corresponding serverless API resource in your SAM template,
this mapping declaration will create one for you.
To define an API Gateway mapping specifically,
you can use the Serverless API resource type.
This creates an API, resources,
and methods for you based on a Swagger configuration.
If you've never heard of Swagger,
it's an API documentation and design framework that can
be used to model an API completely.
The Serverless API resource type in a SAM template will take that
design and create the real resources it defines.
The final SAM‑specific resource type is Serverless SimpleTable.
This is a basic DynamoDB table that has no secondary indexes defined.
If you just want a Dynamo table with basic primary key retrieval,
you can use this to set it up quickly.
If you need to configure your table beyond what's available in SAM,
you should just use the regular CloudFormation DynamoDB type.
You can also define other normal CloudFormation
resource types in your SAM template.
When CloudFormation is doing the transform,
it will pass over them without modification.
Once you're SAM template is written,
here are the steps for deploying your SAM application to AWS.
First,
you'll use the SAM CLI to build the project with the build command.
This takes your code and the SAM template, and then it zips
everything up and gets it ready to be deployed.
You can then deploy that bundle to AWS using the SAM CLI deploy command.
This will deploy your lambda functions up to the cloud.
If you locally ever make a change to your code after
that and you need to redeploy,
you just follow the same steps from the beginning. Choosing between SAM and
the Serverless Framework for your project will likely come down to probably
how much serverless stuff you're actually doing.
You know,
if there's only a small amount, then I think that SAM would
probably be more than enough for you.
There's a lot less involved in the configuration, mostly because it can do
less. But it makes it a little simpler. But if you're really going to be
relying on a lot of different serverless architecture pieces and want to do
something fairly complex, then I'd say that the Serverless Framework is probably going to be a better choice for you.